Michael former CIA analyst who exposed
the 1984 State Department white paper on
putative drug running in Central America
he's also senior fellow of the Council
of on hemispheric affairs and his editor
of unclassified newsletter of the
Association of national security alumni
also joining me is Luis wolf who is
co-editor of the covert action and
information bulletin and he's based in
Washington DC gentlemen in the frontline
PBS documentary it was not implicit it
was rather explicitly stated that the
CIA has been on the wrong side of the
drug war what's the documentation for
that I think you saw much of it in in
frontline the accounts of people who
participated in these operations over
the years and you know basically I think
that part of the question was raised and
their day is that when you open up any
covert operation of paramilitary
operations any scale whatsoever
you open up great opportunities for
trade and contraband and also as was
pointed out very neatly in frontline the
people we recruit for these operations
are in many instances criminals remember
we prefer them to be criminals they're
they're much easier to work with and
honest people so they will take their
opportunities where they find them I
think there are many many cases in Laos
as was pointed out in the the
documentary I used to work there in the
sixties not for the government but I
discovered to my great dismay just like
Ron were right now are in the film that
drugs and war went in hand-in-hand there
was no question that the CIA's presence
there which was of course in a secret
war it was a war which the American
people didn't know about until 1970 when
Senator Fulbright held hearings and yet
there were hundreds
Americans on the ground in Laos I'm not
talking about diplomats I'm talking
about CIA and also military personnel
and that was one of the many lies that
led to the rest of the operation in
including the movement of huge amounts
of opium I remember talking to air
America pilots over drinks in the bar
about how they were moving stuff I also
remember seeing at one point when I was
sent to work in a place called Sam Tong
with the legendary pop Buell who was the
CIA's lieutenant there running he was
Vaughn pals main contact met and we were
only three air miles away from Long
Cheng which was the CIA's headquarters
and every day you'd see coming in and
out plane loads of weapons and munitions
as well as of course the movement of the
of the bricks as they were known how
central is Alfred McCoy's book the
politics of heroin and Southeast Asia in
terms of this documentation how McCoy's
book is the Bible really that's that's
the first genuine you know authoritative
study and exposure of this owl who has
spent some years at the National
University in Australia is now back at
the University of wisconsin-madison now
and that was a very thorough scholarly
study honest and it's been going on as
was you know touched on briefly in in
frontline from the first movement of the
KMT 46 division down there the the drug
traffic that went on in the late 1950s
and up until early 60 at the time at
Field Marshal SAR it was in control of
Thailand what person who was very much
you know tied in with the CIA through
the fence station Chiefs down there read
Jensen
his son-in-law Powell funeral who was
the head of the Thai National Police was
the key figure in the
at that time of opium and heroin down
from the Golden Triangle area through
the Malay Peninsula and shipped out
through Singapore but these routes
changed as you know from time to time
but the fact is that the traffic is
there has gone on for a very very long
time
and the one of the one of the key
elements in this for our purposes is as
you know I've been pointed out McCoy
does of course in his book and frontline
and other films have done this as well
you start with that whole process
beginning in the second world war when
Lucky Luciano was removed from the Mafia
vice and drug kingpin was taken from
Sing Sing to be used as liaison by the
United States the invasion of Sicily in
southern Italy I know Karlee Siragusa
quite well the later Treasury agent who
was handler for Luciano at that time was
with Army Intelligence and the result of
that of course was the the recreation of
the Mafia in the wake of the United
States invasion of same elements were
used in southern France later on in the
struggle against communists and
socialists led unions down there and
interestingly enough the the CIA officer
who was key in that element and Mike and
I his name Lou you know the guy he's
doing yeah Luke onein lucien conan you
see follow the Corsican mafia back
through there was the ova it was the
French Connection
you know back as the Indochina
involvement grew followed them back to
their operations in in South Vietnam he
used them you know in the whole process
of putting the diem government into
operation Luke owning of course was the
famous operative on the ground and
giving the blow-by-blow account relator
on in his car
and his assassination but the pattern of
involvement you see in the figures that
you can trace you know one after another
through this or you know are very very
clear and it in its astonishing that a
bill Colby for example can sit there you
know what is clean Catholic face on and
say we didn't know anything about it we
weren't involved that's crap he's also
on record as saying that the Phoenix
program which he was directing in
Southeast Asia did not assassinate
civilians Louis Wolfe let's say all of
these allegations about the CIA involved
in drug trafficking and with with drug
merchants are accurate why and how would
the agency risk the enormous public
opprobrium and shame of being associated
with with such a low some loathsome
activities I mean do you think it tracks
well the CIA is not known for its track
record of being truthful to the American
people and they're also of the opinion
internally of that they're untouchable
that nobody can touch us I've spoken to
a couple of former CIA people who said
that that's the way they they viewed it
inside I think until fairly recently the
the party line within the agency was
pretty much whatever whatever we need to
do we can do it and that's certainly
been the way that they've been supported
from the White House of course you must
understand that any major covert
operation requires by its very nature
and as bill Casey called it an ollie
north call that off-the-books
unappropriated and unmonitored and
unknown funding simply because it's it's
it can't be tracked and it also creates
much larger opportunities for what they
want to do
Congress needless to say is giving the
CIA everything it wants and then some
and has over the years but these kinds
of operations particularly operations
which the CIA has not disclosed to
Congress and is not likely to require
funding that Congress is not is not
about to give them element in this to
real he wasn't connection with your
question would they risk the program as
I've stated in other venues
you cannot embarrass these people I mean
it's just impossible it's absolutely
impossible so the risk of a program
doesn't enter into it at a very much
deeper level in terms of funding and so
forth as we was talking about there's
something very important here
constitutionally there is a very strong
element within the political
superstructure of the United States
which seeks to maximize the authority
and power of the presidential office to
emphasize the so-called inherent powers
they do not see even when they can go to
the Congress and get the money there is
a preference not to do it to say that
the president can operate on his own
authority it is very important this goes
back to one of the key figures in a 8th
to me a very unfortunately sanctified
figure in American history harry truman
it's much better to speak of the Truman
McCarthy era than simply the McCarthy or
as much of this stuff got in there now
in such an important thing as the Korean
War for example under the influence of
Dean Acheson and Secretary of State
President Truman who could have gotten a
declaration of war easily for the Korean
War he refused to go to Congress for and
Congress went along with it of course
but the point is they didn't want to
operate constitutionally is extremely
important to understand this whole
phenomena we're dealing with is you're
dealing with people who honestly believe
or dishonestly believe whatever that the
president embodies in himself the
totality of power to conduct all Foreign
Affairs the United States and
increasingly as you define any policy in
United
as having a national security
implication that the president has
complete total power within his office
to do this without reference to Congress
to the that is to the representative
people are God help us
to the American people themselves this
is important in trying to understand
this phenomenon I think part of the
problem also is the Congress itself at
Congress which is not prepared to accept
for relatively unimportant lip service
essentially it just turns a blind eye to
whatever the CIA is doing and or
whatever is exposed and at the same time
gives them a blank cheque as I'm sure
you're aware there are there is a so
called oversight process and in in in
existence two committees two
congressional committees that are
supposed to exercise oversight but
essentially it's it's an overlook not
oversight and it's a rubber stamp and
except for the very occasional member of
those committees who who asks
penetrating questions in these secret
hearings but of course they are sworn to
secrecy and not allowed to disclose
whatever they learn it's it's in it's in
and of itself a very impotent oversight
process at the very least to get back
here the point is and if you follow the
debates on the oversight you see many
will criticize the CIA so there hold
hearings into V CIA which happens
periodically you see and criticize these
CIA but the argument and if you follow
the debates it's not support the CIA
it's don't tie the president's hands
music you support the president this was
being called for here that's very
important to make that distinction
because otherwise the CIA is on red
herring out there you saw by the way in
the the frontline report you see is the
time directly and that was made in 1988
by the way that film you know the time
directly mr. vice-president George Bush
into this operation using now you would
think that when the same mr. George Bush
is running for president in that very
year music that the questions directed
at him by his opponents you know or
alleged opponents using would have
directed right toward that he did you
talking about a program using it was
that raised was that raised heavens no
because the object of course is to
shield the president both parties as
well as Congress which is essentially
the representation of both parties are
completely embroiled in this strange
phenomenon we see of the conversion is a
of this country you know from something
which the people who made our
Constitution intended to be politically
into one in which you have effectually
in all significant areas of national
life a presidential dictatorship and I
say this in in the political terms of
the way dictator was used in in in Roman
times of course because it's only given
for a period you see four-year
dictatorships yeah but as you look
through the debates over this you will
see constantly see the president's hands
must not be tied this country as few
people think to understand since 1932
has been continuously under a state of
emergency decreed by one president after
another
the first was decreed in 1932 and has
never been ended there been three
declared since then have never been
ended these things give to the President
or the president declares that it they
give to him power to carry out most
immense activities and this one of the
things is important about of course
about focusing at least on these covert
operations the CIA activities because
these are such a clear manifestation
of the use of this presumed power and
it's for that reason that these things
are important for you know to focus upon
for citizens to focus upon because they
have grave implications for the type of
governmental system under which they
think they live as the iran-contra
hearings showed us but we're immediately
of course pushed aside once again for
business as usual the covert action and
information bulletin is decidedly part
of the alternative media in this country
how well have the so-called mainstream
media functioned in terms of bringing
some of this information forward to the
attention of the American public I have
to say that the mainstream media is part
of the problem as well in fact in many
ways it is the problem because the
mainstream media in large part ignores
any really important revelations in
these areas or following up stories the
frontline documentary the occasional
front page story in one of the major
newspapers 60 minutes very occasionally
they do come out with with important
information I think frontline is a
classic in and of itself but it can just
get swept under the rug because
effectively the next day's newspaper
tells an opposite story it tells part of
what I refer to as the golden lie in in
fact I was not the first one Plato
first referred to the protocol of the
golden lie and it seems to me that we
have to understand that propaganda is an
integral part of this covert operation
which I refer to in the larger context
that the American people have been the
target and are today the target of
American US government sponsored
propaganda we saw it in the case of the
operation against the Nicaraguan
government
through the the office of public
diplomacy we see it through operations
run out today out of us ia they're
setting up a TV Marti directed at Cuba
but also directed at the American people
and in the in and of its very existence
you see large-scale efforts by
government spokespeople to lie to the
American people whether it's about our
involvement in a huge deployment to
Saudi Arabia whether it's about our
operations in the Andean countries
pretending to conduct a war on drugs or
whether it's about the the situation in
this country and the fact that huge sums
of money are being redeployed away from
the inner cities away from the very
critical social needs that we face in
this country to support a foreign policy
which is designed to perpetuate US
government control in these in these
various parts of the third world i I
think I endorse this entirely what what
Lou says there and unfortunately I had
my own training as a historian you know
and I see this sorry process played out
over and over again in country after
country after country is not unique to
the United States once you embark on the
imperial past certain things follow and
I think this had been covered you know
over and over again excellent excellent
books a recent one by what is his name I
just I'm gonna forget it the the book
but you know tracing this history again
as norm Chomsky and others have done
Howard Zinn and others have done
especially back to the Wilson
administration with the imposition of
the Espionage Act of 1917 the under
George creel the
equivalent of the US Information Agency
those intended to operate domestically
there the unleashing of the continual
fears for this phrase national security
nowhere to be found in the Constitution
by the way you know our continual and I
think what is what is critical it was it
very encouraging of course is to find
that at universities elsewhere the
number of very aware citizens
questioning citizens who who see this
who perceived this who want to meet want
to to take some some form of action the
one of the problems as you talk about
the media I tend to be a little softer
on the media than many people because in
fact they will break the story I
personally haven't treated very well by
the media they've covered what I've had
to say when I had something pertinent
very very well but the problem as I see
it is in our one-party political system
because with if a politician a major
politician does not take it up and make
an issue of it the press is not gonna
continue to run this this story there
has to be you know some form of
political supports and movement for
change some attack some direction on it
and when that does not happen this story
is not repeated Lou and his response
talked about the American people being
subjected to propaganda and I think most
people when they hear that they think of
Nuremberg rallies and Joseph Goebbels
and then the and the parades etc etc
you'd be hard-pressed to convince most
American people at while we get the
evening news we get National Public
Radio we get the New York Times The
Washington Post what propaganda are you
talking about Oh
for example national property National
Public Radio excuse me that closely
National Public Radio which five four
and five years ago was running some very
critical broadcasting and analysis on
Central American policy received a very
important visit
from the then head of the office of
public diplomacy our current ambassador
in Venezuela by the way and who informed
them and it was referred to over in the
OPD as NPR as you know radio Havana on M
Street
well after that visit and informing them
of course that their budgets depended
very much on public appropriations the
handling of that issue by National
Public Radio underwent a very visible
change no question about it and
especially part of the problem here in
terms of press in the United States is
although it's defended as an objective
press what we lack here frankly is an
open party press such as they have in
most European countries most democracies
usually though the striving allegedly
for objectivity you know turns into a
situation in which newspapers mainly and
of course especially television stations
which require one a huge investment and
to depend on relicensing by the
authorities tend to be transmitters of
the official line and that is that is
that is their basic and continuing
function so so yes it is in fact a
propaganda system when you understand it
the pentagon alone employs over 10,000
people in in public relations well what
is public relations there's another word
for it recently I just learned from
David in fact that one of the foremost
investigative journalists in this
country a man to whom I think all of us
owe a great debt Robert Perry who was
one of the first people to uncover the
Contra operations the CIA's role in in
Nicaragua and he of course as you
probably know worked at ap at the time
Associated Press and they found himself
facing
good deal of pressure and then when he
and Brian Barger together finally came
up with one of the biggest stories of
this decade that was the beginning of
the uncovering of the drug connection in
the Nicaragua operation and they had all
the documentation they had documented
ten ways till Sunday and back again they
went to their editors and said well
here's our story and it got some Bob
Lewis by the way sorry name of Bob Lewis
by the way was then head of the AP
Bureau in Washington and somehow there
was just no way that they could run the
story they were told so anything one
thing led to another and by mistake I
assure you it got out and it got out
first on some clerk working the wires at
a night shift put it he thought well
this was the story was here it is it's
ready to go and he put it on the Spanish
on AP Spanish wire and then of course it
was out so the story was out but Bob's
and Brian's days were numbered at AP at
that point he then went in a Newsweek
where though he was able to break a
number of major stories relating to CIA
involvement in that operation in
Nicaragua he it was very clear to him
that he wasn't going to be able to
function there as a real journalist
recently within the last couple of
months he finally and it was actually
before before the I'm sorry was before
the election in Nicaragua he had found
the documentation and Bob has amazing
powers of getting documentation on these
things of the CIA connection to Violeta
Chamorro
which of course everyone knows about but
he had the documentation he produced it
at the editors meeting and they had a
Newsweek magazine and was told this is
not the opportune time to run this and
he really defended his case very
powerfully
and finally at the end of the meeting
the editor came over to him and said why
Bob why don't you just wear a black
pajamas when you come to work at which
point Bob said I'm finished I'm out of
here and that's a case of censorship of
propaganda in action
he had the goods you would think that
news we could see their way if only
because they could sell a lot of
magazines with a story like this but no
that was not the party line there was
another case of course of and there are
many Alexander Coburn who is one of the
best journalists in the country he is
able to get a column every so often in
Walsh in the Wall Street Journal he also
writes regularly for the nation and a
number of other alternative media but as
he will tell you as anyone else and I
know an other journalists who work at
The Wall Street Journal
very good journalists very conscientious
ones but the party line is well Coburn's
basically our one hour left-wing voice
here and that's it that's all it's going
to be and there are other very good
solid investigative journalists around
around the country Frank grief Knight
Ridder is one of them for sure but
always they are up against a system
which is very heavily weighted away from
the direction of uncovering the news of
really putting it on.the before the
people occasionally they do get their
stories out but it's rare you know
another very good example there is is
Jonathan kwitny who's also an alumnus of
The Wall Street Journal and the author
of a book very pertinent to this
conference here the crimes of Patriots
which historian New Guinean Bank
okay Johnny kwitny was running one of
the very best investigative television
journalistic Pro loan dummy NYC TV in
New York and he to tread trod upon too
many toes in the intelligence business
he he had
our group on several times they're
dealing with these issues and when a
time came for for funding again his
employers were told that they'd get get
better funding if Jonathan we were not
putting on his program which was the
most popular news oriented program that
they ran so he's he's out too but there
is yeah let's just put it this way there
is a continued censorship by the way
Newsweek where Bob Perry was working
last as I'm sure most of your listeners
know away owned by The Washington Post
Corporation and just to put in a small
plug here one of the books that I
brought along for sale called Catherine
the Great which is a biography of
Katharine Graham and and the Washington
Post and which exposes very fully the
longtime connection of the post and the
national security establishment caused
an enormous scandal in the United States
publishing history when the post
succeeded in getting a major publisher
Harcourt brace jovanovich after they had
published that book originally you know
just through their own direct pressure
on Harcourt brace to have 25,000 copies
already distributed pulled back out of
the shops and shredded now if that's not
censorship we'll have to find better
better word I should also plug here I
think people who don't know about it
should know the newsletter of the
Association of national security alumni
called unclassified which David is the
editor and it's a very important
publication to be reading I find it
every issue absolutely required reading
David is on top of some of the most
important things happening in Washington
today and I feel really everyone
listening should should know about this
publication a second and very important
publication particularly to people on
campuses is called campus watch campus
watch is I think really the only
publication of its kind in this country
trying to keep track of the CIA's
operations on I should say operations
against the faculty and students in this
country around the country and they are
really tracking the CIA's role as well
as trying to support the efforts by
students and faculty around the country
to oppose the ia recruitment on campuses
and to oppose CIA sponsored research on
campuses both of these areas are
critically important in fighting the
intelligence apparatus okay since since
you mentioned unclassified Louella
so that the way to subscribe to that
which is it's a bimonthly six issues a
year is to send twenty dollars to our
treasurer Vern Lyon
9:21 Pleasant Street Des Moines Iowa
five oh three oh nine and just one
further word again connecting censorship
and campus watch by the way is that the
a very distinguished historian professor
Warren Cohen who carries the title of
distinguished University professor of
history at the University of Michigan
within the past two months
resigned as the head of the Department
of State's outside review Committee on
documentation for the Foreign Relations
series which is the be permanent
published record of United States
relations with with foreign countries
and he did so denouncing the process now
as a fraud and a hoax because
the CIA in complicity with the State
Department refuses to make available for
that series the documents dealing with
the CIA activities in the countries
being covered and due to the time lapse
in publishing this they are now dealing
with the era of the mid-1950s and of
course one can't look at the United
States relations say with Guatemala or
Iran particularly without that
documentation being placed and without
it of course as Professor Cohen points
out this has become a total fraud and
he's a very bitter very angry man but it
indicates once again the total
incompatibility of the intelligence
community and of the CIA particularly as
a symbol of that with have any relation
with a university community which is of
course dedicated to the truth and the
exposure of the truth and the
documentation of the truth all too with
all of these things the CIA is
unalterably opposed
I think people in other parts of the
country don't know those of your
listeners I'm sure to a person I'm sure
are aware that one of the most important
struggles that has been waged and my
knowledge against the CIA has been done
right here in Boulder and I take my hat
off to students and faculty here who
rose up against the CIA's efforts to
invade this campus and truly it's one of
the greatest examples of what can be
done of the power of unity in the face
of an agency such as the CIA I think of
course as David has pointed out that we
have to watch other elements of the
intelligence apparatus and I would say
the same efforts should be directed at
the National Security Agency when they
come to your campus or the State
Department that's correct
more general dynamics or Martin Marietta
you know they're all part of the same
machine if I may those who wish to know
about it
want to subscribe also to covert action
information bulletin which they can do
certainly just drop us a note and a 17
dollar check and it's post office box
three four five eight three Washington
DC to zero zero four three
we are now at the printer with our 35th
issue which is dealing mostly with East
events in Eastern Europe and
developments of the most important
nature after all our president is the
one who said when he visited Auschwitz
in nineteen eighty seven G they were
into crematoriums here weren't they so
you know we really have to understand
what is taking place in Eastern Europe
and the efforts by this administration
to totally turn history on its on its
head I would also say that the issue
deals with one of the greatest untold
stories of a CIA genocide and that is in
the case of Indonesia in 1965 and 66
Ralph McGehee who spent 25 years in the
CIA has written I think a very important
article and also it contains transcript
partial transcript of interviews
conducted by a very good journalist
Kathy Kidane with States News Service in
Washington she conducted interviews over
while her research was 9 years long but
the actual interviews were conducted
over the last couple of years with
former diplomats and intelligence
officials and these interviews really
nail the CIA to the murder of the
assassination of over a million
Indonesians if ever there is a story
that it should have been told long
before this is this one just a couple of
more questions gentlemen in November of
1988 covert action information bulletin
sponsored and large four day-long
conference at Harvard University on
anti-communism and the United States
foreign policy and at that conference
call Bernstein was one of the attendees
and in fact participated in several
panels and I tried to pin him down on
the October Surprise I asked him if he
looked at and he said yeah he looked at
it and said there's nothing there do you
have any take on the so-called October
Surprise oh yes as a matter of fact I
can tell you that I don't know where
Carl Bernstein is coming from I won't
say this but but Gary's sick for example
who was the NSC officer in in the Carter
Administration on on the Middle East
miss told me says yes we definitely know
that it happened several people in the
in the Carter Administration including
Jody Powell Bob pastor have told me yes
we believe it happened we just don't
have the documentation there very
important stories coming out including
and this we don't have time to get into
this day but just just let me say there
is a a astonishing lawsuit in Washington
DC involving a computer software firm
called ins law nsla Wu's president
William Hamilton who has been the
subject over the years of an astonishing
takeover attempt which at at the bottom
of which lies a certain mr. Earl Bryan
once very close political associate of
Ronald Reagan's and the the evidence
increasingly shows that the attempt to
give insula very very lucrative
contracts to to the Brian control group
is part of a payoff for Brian's
participation in the October Surprise
operation no I I just I just cannot
emphasize strongly enough that that is
one of the most important stories it's
certainly one was a great deal of
evidence and of course one never says
proof until you get your evidence in
front of those persons who can transmute
it into proof but there is a tremendous
amount of evidence that in fact that
negotiation which as listeners may know
resulted in allegedly resulted in the
United States embassy hostages in a
and being held until ronald reagan's
inauguration was in fact negotiated by
representatives of the reagan-bush 1980
campaign team and that the payoff for
this was arm sales initially through
israel to iran and the objective was to
continue the hostage crisis which was so
crucial in in President Jimmy Carter's
loss in his reelection bid I think part
of the proof certainly we need much more
is that the hostages were in the air 20
minutes after Bush took the oath could
that be a coincidence I'm sorry if this
Bush somehow they're synonymous in my
mind if I think it's also apparent the
extreme and quite public paranoia that
the White House at the moment is feeling
about the issue hostages and Bush's own
statements about the hostages being held
by Iraq and he's also not forgetting
that this was the issue which maybe his
team helped to bring help to bring down
Jimmy Carter obviously there was much
more but that was certainly part of it
I think also we have to understand that
every White House needs a war and you
know there's the old story that whenever
we go to war that the people rally
behind the president that's what we're
being told we should do I don't think
there's many of your listeners or many
people in this community that are likely
to feel that way but the American North
American public is being asked to
support the idea that we go to war over
oil as we indeed we went to war over
other things in the past allegedly
communism of course being the main one
well in your view is this October
Surprise scenario plausible but not yet
demonstrated beyond yes it's plausible
and yes I think there's ample evidence
to you know to support a full
investigation there will not be a full
investigation into it this getting back
again to politicians create issues
academics don't create issues newspapers
don't create issues political issues are
made by politicians that awful man
Michael Dukakis
who fraudulently represented himself as
a Democratic Party candidate for
president in 1988 you know allowed
himself sit there and answer insane
questions addressed to him about what he
would do if Willie Horton raped his wife
you know was not shoving down George
Bush's throat and every encounter the
basic question what about October 1980
where were you what kind of a deal went
on here's the evidence using the failure
of politicians to bring up and use these
issues would be puzzling except for one
thing that we talked about earlier it's
the commitment which I see at every
level of political life the United
States to the enhancement the
glorification the deification even of
the presidential office and to bring
into question the legitimacy which this
would you know of the whole eight years
of the Reagan presidency is something
that those people committed to that idea
cannot face and kind of stomach what
contribution in your view has the
Christic Institute made to revealing the
allegations that there has been a secret
team at work composed of former CIA
operatives and Cuban exiles and and
others in drug trafficking I think the
Christic Institute has done a very
important public education work in this
and by the way I will point out the term
secret team did not originate with Danny
Shannon company was used by L Fletcher
Prouty
long time Air Force point connection
with the intelligence community in his
book which is called the secret team
first publish I believe in what 73 Lou
yeah 73 in which a documents precisely
you know the that permanent continually
self recruiting covert bureaucracy which
perpetuates this this activity is
committed to it
I think it's that in connection with by
connecting this to a an ongoing lawsuit
that this gained a great deal of
publicity for this I give every credit
in the world to the organizational
abilities you know of the Christic
Institute in its conduct and I will say
in a word of christen I used to work for
Christic as you know that I I think that
in presentation of their case as a law
public interest law firm that they would
have been on much more solid grounds had
they avoided some of the let's say
political side excursions into into
which they took it but it but but I they
say I give all credit to the Christic
Institute for pushing this issue out
front and of course their timing at time
iran-contra broke you know was was also
a very significant and very I'm very
important i likewise I feel that this
suit after all was the first suit to
force a judge to read to state on the
record giving them giving the Christic
Institute there right through discovery
to documentation of the government about
of the government's documentation and
records back to 1955 and it was a golden
opportunity certainly to to do that I
guess if I have any small criticism it
might be or not so much criticism but
difference with with the analysis that
is simply that the proposition that the
members of the secret team which number
about a dozen of those named in the in
the
in the suit are all to a person at least
officially retirees from you US
government service or contractor status
and it would I think be a mistake to
believe I'm not sure that the people at
Christic do believe this but I think it
would be a mistake to believe that where
these people locked up you know this
evening that the problem would go away
I'm not prepared to accept that and I
think that the problem goes much deeper
US intelligence activities and
operations and the bureaucracy is far
too complicated far too compartment to
allow that there are thousands of people
many thousands of people involved and of
course billions of dollars and the
surely there is a continuum as the
Christic suit has pointed out and is
documented of careers that these people
have had ever since going back to to the
beginnings of the CIA and through Laos
through Vietnam through Chile and other
major operations right up to Nicaragua
nevertheless and I should say also right
up and I'm going to be talking about
this tonight right up to the very moment
we're speaking because some of these
very people are involved today in
operations government-sponsored
operations in the Andean countries so
there is a continuum yes but I still say
that it goes much more to the apparatus
itself than to defined you know
Menten team as it's called a secret team
very very sophisticated in my view
historical analysis of this development
which lou speaks is found in colonel
william Corson's book the armies of
ignorance published in 1978 bill Corson
a retired Marine Corps colonel spent has
worked his lifetime in intelligence was
very key operative for a long period of
time
and a very severe critic I may say one
of the best the of the intelligence
establishment gives you an excellent
historical perspective there I just want
to say one other thing about the
Christic suit by the way just to correct
something their discovery per se only
extended back to the to 1982 in that in
the case the judge judge king gave
discovery for two years before and two
years after and as a questionable
decision given the given the statute
secondly one of the one of the awful
parts in the way that case has been
handled again but I think a failure of a
judge came to act with his judicial
powers had been in the in his failure to
enforce his subpoenas subpoenas issued
by his Court I've sat through many a
deposition in which people like Secord
and others you know simply refused to
produce papers that were called for in a
lawful subpoena and nothing has been
done to require them to disgorge same I
recall reading in the New York Times you
were quoted as saying that one of the
problems you had with the Christic case
was that it was as ascribing every crime
since Cain slew Abel yeah yeah I think I
think that that's another aspect to it
there's the casting of a net too wide in
my view is never good but you must
understand also that the way that case
is structured under the RICO statute you
see is that ensuing for a private
plaintiff Innis the the the Christic
Institute leader represents legal
representation acts as the the statute
itself says in as a private district
attorney and as you know in following
the normal course of prosecution in any
significant case the tendency or the the
won't even say the tendency the pract
prosecuting attorneys is in fact to draw
their initial list of charges as widely
as possible and in the process of taking
those before a grand jury there is a a
winnowing process you know which takes
away the the those which are least
prosecutable let us say our least easily
demonstrable until you get a take to a
grand jury to get a true bill a fairly
limited number of the original charges
and then a decision is made after that
because you know prosecutorial resources
as are the Krista canisters resources
limited to focus closely on those which
are most essential to your case and you
further narrow it down and one of the
problems I had and in that was why I
said what I did in that interview was
that where we needed I thought are you
to concentrate the energies on the the
key predicate Act which was the bombing
ATLA penka is we don't prove that we
don't we can't carry the case you know
that that resources were being utilized
in order to you know demonstrate long
ago or even current activities of people
which were interesting in themselves but
you know from from the point of view of
prosecuting a law case not the ones I
thought the energy should have been
going to it was noteworthy that the one
of the key actors in that bombing John
hull who himself disclosed to the
Washington Times that he was working
with the CIA
it seemed to me infinitely I mean it's
it's like adding one plus one and you
must come up with to mascara su lines
that were after all very clear of the
whole connection to the bombing of the
presence of Rob Owen at the time the
bombing took place in in Costa Rica of
the involvement of a number of other key
CIA personnel Joseph Fernandez
particularly it seems to me
and I'm not criticizing the suit or
acoustic Institute but it seems to me
and I'm the last one to suggest that it
was easy but it would have been
critically important as David points out
to follow that trail to its very very
end and of course the Costa Rican
government has in fact indicted John
hull on charges of murder suggesting
that the somewhat validating the Christa
Kline oh yeah yeah this is very
interesting development in that the the
judicial investigative Corps in in Costa
Rica has over the past several years
acting very independently by the way has
come up with a great deal of evidence
attacking attacking a particularly John
hull and and those around him and
several by the way who are also included
in that twenty eight defendants in an
acoustic case but the no action will be
taken on this you see this was developed
during the arias presidency there was no
move to act there the president
President Calderon is a very even much
closer to the responsive to the US
position and even arias was which is
saying a great deal so I don't expect
you know there's gonna be a whole lot
you know that will come out of that hall
himself is currently in the United
States at least was my last knowledge
being carefully protected by Lee
Hamilton who as you equal congressman
Hamilton was the chairman of the House
Select Committee on iran-contra was the
chairman of the house permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence Committee on
Alton is another congressman who's very
much involved in this is bill mccollum
the fifth District in Florida whose
ubiquitous legislative aide mr. Vaughn
Forrest on that very night in May of
1984 was on John halls ranch and in fact
my it is I think there's sufficient
indication there to state the
possibility that his role there was to
assist in the spiriting away of the
putative assassin amok allele the the
interesting aspect of that of course is
that mr. McCollum was also as a
Republican a member of the House Select
Committee on iran-contra and his current
opponent in that race very interesting
chap named Bob Fletcher who also plays a
role in all of this which died he hid do
here has openly charged a requested
independent counsel lawrence wolf to
investigate with a view to indict him
mr. McCollum whose name shows up
frequently on Ollie North's work diary
as one who had in fact close knowledge
of the matters which the committees were
investigating and withheld that
knowledge from the committee itself
there is a you know that this it's quite
a tangled web as we say and you know
it's hard to you know to to blame in a
sense they well why isn't something done
when you look at the picture and see how
many people are involved what positions
they occupy what philosophies they
embrace and to expect that the mere
demin and this is a really important
David I guess is what I want to wind up
in the same you say and I won't say
anything more people who go into this
and people should go into this task of
cleaning this particular audience table
right okay
have to understand one thing right at
the start is that you can put the
clearest most convincing absolutely
irrefutable evidence of wrongdoing on
the part of high-level elected officials
of the United States and on the part of
the agencies which they control we're
dealing here particularly with the so
called intelligence agencies you can lay
that out there and have had people come
to my office you know say boy when I put
this out it's gonna cause all the trees
in the forest to fall
and I have to tell them it's not gonna
have that effect it is absolutely not
gonna have that effect you might you
might get a blip in Jack Anderson's
column but the trees will be standing
today after thank you very much David
McMichael and Louis Wolfe I'm David
Barse ah man thank you for listening